Add benchmarking blog post (#341)
deepset-ai/haystack-home: content/blog/benchmarking-haystack-pipelines/index.md

toc: True
date: 2024-06-21
last_updated: 2024-06-21
authors:
  - David Batista
tags: ["Evaluation", "RAG"]
---

In this article, we will show you how to use Haystack to evaluate the performance of a RAG pipeline. Note that the code in this article is meant to be illustrative and may not run as is; if you want to run the code, please refer to the [python script](https://github.com/deepset-ai/haystack-evaluation/blob/main/evaluations/evaluation_aragog.py).

## Introduction

This article will guide you through building a Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) pipeline using Haystack, adjusting various parameters, and evaluating it with the ARAGOG dataset. The dataset consists of pairs of questions and answers, and our objective is to assess the RAG pipeline's efficiency in retrieving the correct context and generating accurate answers. To do this, we will use the following evaluation metrics:

- [ContextRelevance](https://docs.haystack.deepset.ai/docs/contextrelevanceevaluator)
- [Faithfulness](https://docs.haystack.deepset.ai/docs/faithfulnessevaluator)
- [Semantic Answer Similarity](https://docs.haystack.deepset.ai/docs/sasevaluator)

> We did this experiment by relying on three different Haystack pipelines with different purposes: one pipeline for indexing, another for retrieval augmented generation (RAG), and one for evaluation. We describe each of these pipelines in detail and show how to combine them together to evaluate the RAG pipeline. 

Reviewer: Since we already used the extension (acronym) above we can just use the acronym here.

```suggestion
We did this experiment by relying on three different Haystack pipelines with different purposes: one pipeline for indexing, another RAG, and one for evaluation. We describe each of these pipelines in detail and show how to combine them together to evaluate the RAG pipeline. 
```

The article is organized as follows: we first describe the origin and authorship of the ARAGOG dataset, then we build the pipelines. We then demonstrate how to integrate everything, performing multiple runs over the dataset and adjusting parameters. These parameters were chosen based on feedback from our community, reflecting how users optimize their pipelines:

- `top_k`: the maximum number of documents returned by the retriever.
- `embedding_model`: the model used to encode the documents and the question.
- `chunk_size`: the number of tokens in the input text that makes up segments of text to be embedded and indexed.

> Finally, we show and discuss the results of the evaluation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We end by discussing the results of the evaluation and sharing some lessons learned.
```
